M & K Employee Solutions, LLC v. Trustees of the IAM National Pension Fund (No. 23-1209)

QUESTIONS PRESENTED:
When a pension plan calculates how much a departing employer owes “as of the
   end of the plan year,” must the plan use the financial assumptions it had
   already adopted by that date, or can it use new assumptions created after
   that date if they are based on information that was available at year-
   end?

BACKGROUND:
M&amp;K Employee Solutions operated three facilities that participated in
the IAM National Pension Fund, a retirement plan jointly funded by multiple
employers whose workers were represented by the International Association of
Machinists union. In late 2017, the Fund’s actuary valued the plan’s
unfunded obligations at about $448 million. Shortly after, in January 2018,
the actuary met with the Fund’s trustees and decided to change key financial
assumptions used to calculate how much departing employers owed the Fund.
Most importantly, they lowered the assumed investment return rate from 7.5%
to 6.5%, a change that would significantly increase the bills for employers
leaving the plan. M&amp;K had already begun pulling out of the Fund when two
of its facilities stopped participating in 2017. When M&amp;K completely
withdrew in 2018, the Fund calculated what M&amp;K owed based on financial
data from December 31, 2017, but used the new assumptions adopted in January
2018. This resulted in a withdrawal liability bill of over $6 million. Ohio
Magnetics, another company in the Fund, faced a similar situation when it
withdrew in mid-2018 and received a bill for about $447,000 calculated the
same way. Both companies challenged their bills through arbitration and won,
with arbitrators ruling the Fund could not use assumptions created after the
December 31, 2017 measurement date. The Fund then sued in the U.S. District
Court for the District of Columbia to overturn these arbitration decisions.
The district court sided with the Fund, ruling that actuaries could adopt
new assumptions after the measurement date as long as they were based on
information available at that time. The court remanded the cases to the
arbitrators for reconsideration. Both employers appealed to the U.S. Court
of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit.

Argued: January 20, 2026
Decision expected: Pending

KEY LEGAL ISSUES:
- To be determined by issue analysis pipeline step