Cox Communications, Inc. v. Sony Music Entertainment (No. 24-171)

QUESTIONS PRESENTED:
Can an internet service provider be held liable, and found to have acted
   willfully, for copyright infringement just because it knew users were
   infringing and did not terminate their access?

BACKGROUND:
Cox Communications, Inc. is a major internet service provider selling
internet, telephone, and cable television to millions across the United
States. Between 2013 and 2014, some of Cox’s internet subscribers used peer-
to-peer file-sharing networks, such as BitTorrent, to download and
distribute copyrighted songs owned by numerous record companies and music
publishers, including Sony Music Entertainment (the “Plaintiffs”). These
record companies, through the Recording Industry Association of America
(RIAA), hired a company called MarkMonitor to monitor illegal file sharing
and notify internet service providers when infringement was detected.
MarkMonitor sent Cox over 163,000 notices of infringement during the
relevant period. In response, Cox operated a “thirteen-strike” policy, under
which it warned or temporarily suspended subscribers after repeated notices,
but in practice it rarely terminated service for copyright infringement,
while regularly terminating service for nonpayment. Plaintiffs became
frustrated with Cox’s limited enforcement against repeat infringers and sued
Cox instead of its subscribers, alleging that Cox was secondarily liable for
copyright infringement occurring on its network. Specifically, plaintiffs
contended Cox either intentionally contributed to or benefited from its
subscribers’ infringements by failing to take adequate steps to stop it,
thereby inducing or materially contributing to the unlawful acts. The U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia denied Cox statutory
safe harbor under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) and allowed
the case to proceed to trial on theories of vicarious and contributory
copyright infringement. The jury found Cox liable on both counts and awarded
$1 billion in statutory damages. On appeal, the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Fourth Circuit affirmed the jury’s finding of willful contributory
infringement, reversed the vicarious liability verdict, and vacated the
damages award, remanding the case for a new trial on damages.

Argued: December 01, 2025
Decision expected: Pending

KEY LEGAL ISSUES:
- To be determined by issue analysis pipeline step