Keathley v. Buddy Ayers Construction, Incorporated (No. 25-6)

QUESTIONS PRESENTED:
May the doctrine of judicial estoppel be invoked to bar a plaintiff who
   fails to disclose a civil claim in bankruptcy filings from pursuing that
   claim simply because there is a potential motive for nondisclosure,
   regardless of whether there is evidence that the plaintiff in fact acted
   in bad faith?

BACKGROUND:
Thomas Keathley filed for Chapter 13 bankruptcy in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court
for the Eastern District of Arkansas in December 2019. In August 2021, while
his bankruptcy case was ongoing, Keathley was in a motor vehicle collision
with David Fowler, a truck driver employed by Buddy Ayers Construction, Inc.
(BAC). Keathley hired a personal injury attorney the next day and
subsequently filed a personal injury lawsuit against BAC in the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Mississippi in December 2021,
alleging negligence and vicarious liability. Keathley, however, failed to
disclose this new personal injury lawsuit as a potential asset to the
bankruptcy court. He submitted multiple amended bankruptcy plans in March
2022 and June 2022, none of which mentioned the pending lawsuit. The
bankruptcy court confirmed Keathley’s modified plan in July 2022, unaware of
the personal injury claim. Keathley only amended his bankruptcy schedule to
include the lawsuit after BAC moved to dismiss the personal injury case. BAC
moved for summary judgment in the personal injury suit, arguing that the
doctrine of judicial estoppel barred Keathley’s claim because he failed to
disclose it during his bankruptcy proceeding. The district court granted
BAC’s motion, dismissing the lawsuit, and subsequently denied Keathley's
motion for reconsideration. Keathley then appealed both of those decisions
to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, which affirmed the
district court’s decisions.

Certiorari granted: October 20, 2025
Argued: Not yet argued
Decision expected: Pending

KEY LEGAL ISSUES:
- To be determined by issue analysis pipeline step