Hain Celestial Group, Inc. v. Palmquist (No. 24-724)

QUESTIONS PRESENTED:
Must a federal court’s final judgment be set aside if the case did not have
   complete diversity when it was removed from state court, and can a
   plaintiff block diversity jurisdiction by updating the complaint after
   removal to include a valid claim against a nondiverse defendant?

BACKGROUND:
Grant and Sarah Palmquist’s son Ethan developed normally until about 30
months of age, when he experienced sudden and severe developmental
regression, including cognitive, behavioral, and physical impairments. He
was later diagnosed with a range of conditions—some physical, like seizures
and hypotonia, and others mental, like autism and neurocognitive disorders.
Tests also revealed high levels of toxic heavy metals in Ethan’s system,
which some physicians attributed to heavy-metal poisoning. The Palmquists
linked his symptoms to his nearly exclusive consumption of Earth’s Best
Organic baby food—manufactured by Hain Celestial Group, Inc. and sold by
Whole Foods Market, Inc.—from infancy through toddlerhood. In 2021, a U.S.
House Oversight Committee report revealed that Hain’s baby foods contained
high levels of arsenic, lead, cadmium, and mercury and that Hain had not
tested final products for such contaminants until 2019. In 2021, the
Palmquists sued Hain and Whole Foods in Texas state court, raising various
state-law claims. Hain removed the case to federal court, alleging that
Whole Foods had been improperly joined to defeat diversity jurisdiction. The
district court agreed, dismissed Whole Foods, and denied the Palmquists’
motion to remand. It later granted judgment as a matter of law for Hain
during trial. On appeal, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
reversed, holding that the Palmquists had adequately stated claims against
Whole Foods, defeating diversity jurisdiction. It vacated the judgment and
remanded the case with instructions to return it to state court.

Argued: November 04, 2025
Decision expected: Pending

KEY LEGAL ISSUES:
- To be determined by issue analysis pipeline step