National Republican Senatorial Committee v. Federal Election Commission (No. 24-621)

QUESTIONS PRESENTED:
Do FECA limits on coordinated party expenditures in 52 U.S.C. § 30116
   violate the First Amendment, either on their face or as applied to party
   spending in connection with “party coordinated communications”?

BACKGROUND:
In 2022, two Republican party committees—the National Republican Senatorial
Committee and the National Republican Congressional Committee—along with
then-Senator J.D. Vance and then-Representative Steve Chabot, sued the
Federal Election Commission (FEC). The Republican committees asserted that
the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (FECA) unconstitutionally
restricts their ability to coordinate campaign advertising with their own
candidates. This coordination allows the party and its candidates to unify
their political message and spend money more efficiently. For example, in
the 2021-2022 election cycle, the senatorial committee spent about $15.5
million and the congressional committee spent about $8.3 million on such
coordinated expenditures, which primarily fund political advertising. The
plaintiffs argue that developments since a 2001 Supreme Court decision, FEC
v. Colorado Republican Federal Campaign Committee (Colorado II), which
upheld these same limits, have rendered that decision obsolete.
Specifically, they point to changes in campaign finance law, the rise of
“Super PACs,” and shifts in the Supreme Court’s First Amendment
jurisprudence as reasons the restrictions no longer pass constitutional
muster. The plaintiffs filed their lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for
the Southern District of Ohio. As required by FECA for constitutional
challenges, the district court certified the legal question to the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit sitting en banc. The Sixth Circuit
concluded that the FECA’s limits on coordinated campaign expenditures do not
violate the First Amendment and denied both the facial and as-applied
challenges brought by the plaintiffs.

Argued: December 09, 2025
Decision expected: Pending

KEY LEGAL ISSUES:
- To be determined by issue analysis pipeline step